I I would say nuclear has suffered from
the worst PR and that might it might be
partly because governments have always
been involved and you know things like
Fukushima or three M get brought up but
I have to point out that nobody died in
those in those situations and if you
look at deaths per gwatt hour nuclear
beats out wind and it beats out solar
surpris right it's the safest already
and that's not even considering that
smrs and microact still safer from new
big civil power
[Music]
PLS hey everybody so I had a great
discussion today with uh someone I've
wanted to talk to the type of person
I've wanted to talk to for a long time
and and turned out to be exactly the
right person James Walker he's a nuclear
physicist CEO of a very interesting
company called Nano nuclear and Nano is
making micro reactors that are nuclear
reactors that are portable that can be
moved around on the back of trucks and
this is something I'm very interested in
being interested in the Nexus in the
relationship between energy environment
and the amelioration of poverty and it
seems to me that investigating the
provision of lowcost resilient widely
distributable nuclear power as an
alternative to fossil fuel
is morally required partly because we
know we know this isn't some wild
hypothesis that if you can make people
who are absolutely poverty stricken
relatively Rich they start to care about
the environmental future and so what
that means is the fastest way to
environmental sustain sustainability is
by the amelioration of poverty and the
best way to do that is to provide
lowcost energy and potentially the best
way to do that is with nuclear energy
and so I think these guys are on The
Cutting Edge so I talked to James Walker
as an extremely interesting Technical
and managerial background military
background as well about just exactly
what they're up to that's all part and
parcel of this so you know welcome
aboard all right Mr Walker James um
you're CEO of Nano nuclear and you've
got a cool title I think head of reactor
development that's a cool tile and I was
looking at your bio and you know it's
it's quite a lot of fun so what have we
got here extensive experience in
engineering and project maintenance
including mining construction
manufacturing design infrastructure and
Safety Management so that's a lot of
practical work and and so you know I'm
very interested in talking to you today
and so thank you very much for agreeing
to participate in this I've been
following Nano nuclear on Twitter for
quite a while and I'll just give you
some background so you know why I wanted
to talk to you I mean I've thought for
years that it's utterly insane that
we're not pursuing nuclear energy like
at at a rate that's as fast as we can
possibly move and I have a lot of
questions about Simplicity of design and
I I they're probably stupid questions to
be frank but now I have the opportunity
to ask them and hopefully I won't be
quite so stupid after I'm done this
conversation so do you want to start by
telling everybody what it is that you're
up to with Nano nuclear and and why you
think what you're doing is plausible and
plausible helpful and possibly
revolutionary I mean you you're up in
Canada um take mining sites or a lot of
the the um uh First Nation communities
they're in remote areas all of these
things are run on diesel power and you
can't substitute this out for anything
else until micro actors come on the
scene and then suddenly you've got a
market there thousands of mining sites
hundreds of remote communities Island
communities um charging stations fre
Vehicles you can essentially
put these remote Power Systems in the
middle of nowhere and they would power
your communities or businesses 15 20
years and that's a wonderful business
opportunity that's never really been
present before and that's why we pursued
the micro act okay so so let me get some
terminology straight so I understand
exactly what we're talking about here so
we have large scale nuclear reactors in
Ontario which and they're planning to
refurbish the Pickering site which is a
new decision I think that came up out
actually last week and and and a good
decision thank God we're not as Dopey as
California or Germany let's say now you
talked about small modular reactors and
I've looked into the mol and salt
technology reactors and so forth but
you're differentiating that down further
to micro reactors so do you want to
distinguish for us draw a distinction
between a micro reactor and a small
modular reactor and can you tell us the
scale of power production you know in in
house equivalents let's say a standard
reactor or p it will power something
like a small City if I understand if
I've got my numbers uh aligned properly
a small modular reactor I'm not sure
about their power generating capacity
and you're and what exactly constitutes
a micro reactor so differentiate that
for us absolutely so let's start with
the conventional civil power plant
because um that's what everyone's
familiar with because we've been using
those for decades so those things are
powering cities and Beyond so usually a
significant portion of your National grd
um and that's that that's in gigawatts
you know but when you when you shrink
down to an smmr you're talking about
something really between say 20
megawatts and about 300 megawatts and
when you're getting up to about 300
megawatts you're getting up to quite a
large Rea and so that's really the
definitional um the definition we can
place on an SMR a micro reactor really
is anything between well anything less
than 20 megab um that point you're
dealing with very small reactors um okay
yeah and so that's where we are and
we're at the low end of that because we
want to transport micro reactor okay so
so let me okay let's zero in on the
micro reactors now for a moment and then
we'll talk about the technology okay so
when I've been thinking about this
because I've been thinking about the
relationship between energy and the
environment for a long time so when I've
been thinking about this a number of
things struck me the first is the
absolute power density of nuclear fuel
which is unsurpassed by any standard
except with for fusion and we're not at
Fusion levels yet although I talked to
someone about that recently and that'll
be released quite soon and so then I
thought well we've obviously had
something approximating micro reactors
that are reliable for a very long time
because we've been using nuclear subs
for what how long now 70 years is at
least 70 years yes right I mean so
that's a long time and they fit in a
submarine so they're not very big and
submarines move around so they're
obviously portable and the people on
them don't dive from radiation poison
and they can stay underwater forever so
and they're obviously extraordinarily
reliable so then I keep thinking well
why the hell aren't they everywhere and
so let's talk about everywhere for a
minute I mean there's some real
advantages to distributed systems I
would say you pointed to the fact that
they could be used in isolated
communities but I'm also wondering it's
like well why not a network grid of
micro reactors as a substitute for these
multi-billion ion dollar massive
reactors that can but don't very often
fail cataclysmically and so I mean is
there as well as a market for these
isolated places that you describe is
there a the broader capacity of making a
resilient networked power grid that that
gives countries sovereignty over their
own power supply but is also has the
advantages of like multiplicity of
provision which you know I mean we have
a distributed system for fossil fuel and
there's some real utility in that
because if part of it goes down the rest
of it doesn't and so so tell me tell me
your thoughts on those those sorts of
matters well it's interesting you bring
that up because um we were recently at a
conference in fact just last week and
the PO a representative of the Polish
government approach us about exactly
this and they have um a grid system
where certain shutdowns mean that they
the whole grid gets lost and so they
really come up with no real solution to
this apart from micro reactors which
they believe they could space these
accordingly
so that in the event of blackout in a
certain area the grid can be substituted
with other power sources along the way
and this has a this is a far more
preferential solution than say big grid
system or even a diesel generator system
which is actually less consistent and
requires the the daily importation of
diesel just to maintain right right
right well how what these systems are
they resilient to solar flares just out
of curiosity like because this is also a
concern right because a solar flare is
about a once in a century occurrence and
the fact that a solar flare could take
out our whole power grid seems to me a
lot more pervasive and present a threat
than this like climate alarmism that
we're shorting short circuiting
ourselves about so I know that the in
the the distribution infrastructure
still might be susceptible to say solar
flare induced shocks but what about the
reactors themselves well the good part
about a reactor is that it's almost
entirely mechanical obviously you can
the argument mechanics the mechanics can
be very controlled by the
electric but the truth of it is that
like the reason why mic micro actors are
very safe is that say there was a big
solar flare and knocked out the
electrics and the mechanical systems all
simultanously failed with the micro
reactor you you can't get the sort of
the the disaster or um the the core melt
which is the big problem with a big
civil plant that you can and reason for
that is that it can't generate enough
heat especially in our designs to to
actually melt the reactors so it
passively co and right right so it just
shuts down shuts itself down and and
even then the say the rea the uranium
just keeps getting hotter it's fine it
just radiate heat out and it's not going
to melt and it doesn't matter like the
worst thing that can happen with a
reactor is if I don't know it's a
coolant leak which leads to a core
overheat which leads to core melt which
can H happen in big reactors it's not
going to kill anyone but it's messy to
clean up right right right in a microor
just it just passively cool so say you
did get that solar flare there's not a
huge amount of electronics that it it
would it would be a fairly quick fix to
go around and put these things back in
order but they would essentially just
sit there until you came around to do
that fix so it's a big Advantage okay so
that's another advantage on the
resilient side okay so now I want to
draw delve if you would into other
issues so let's say cost availability
but I'd also like to ask some really
stupid questions about the technology
itself so I've mean and correct me any
place I'm wrong and that might there
might be many places like that I mean so
you refine nuclear Fuel and it heats up
of its own accord as a consequence of
radioactive fusion and so and then in a
big reactor you use rods to dampen down
the rate at which the fision um reaction
occurs so that it stays within
acceptable bounds so let me ask you
really a basic simple technical question
so I was thinking well what would be the
simplest possible source of electricity
that you could hypothetically design if
you were using nuclear power so I
thought well why not embed pellets of
enriched uranium or some other substance
inside molten lead balls and calibrate
the distribution of the uranium pellet
so that the balls were basically red hot
but no hotter drop them in a bucket of
water capture the Steam and run a
generator okay so like why is that
stupid because it seems the lead seems
to me to be something that's dense and
would Shield I guess it would get
radioactive over time but so that that's
a very simple design so tell me why
that's a stupid design oh no I mean
effectively what you've done is design a
basic reactor because like uranium gets
hot heats up water like the only thing
that's missing from your design is the
circulation of water so what you would
want to do is obviously move the hot
water to of yeah so right but that's a
simp we we have pumps we could do that
we have pumps okay so so why aren't why
aren't extraordinarily simple systems
like I mean I know it's not simple to
mine and refine the uranium you know but
why aren't extraordinarily simple
systems like that available even is heat
sources for that matter well I I'll give
you a good example actually you know
that do you remember the voyage uh
spacecraft that NASA launched that were
they I think on the of the solar system
at the moment and um essentially all
that's all all that's powering those is
plutonium that's um basically radiating
heat and that's it it's like it's like
the Jordan Peterson reactor but um it's
radiating heat and there's like a
thermoelectric turbine on the just
converts some of that heat into
electricity that's it that and that's
that's the totality of it so that's
probably the most simple nuclear device
nuclear power device you could get um
but say with say with a a lead lined
uranium pet like you described
well say you have a place for your fuel
and you're putting all of the lead
pellets in there um that's going to
obviously the lead is now occupying
space the fuel could be so you might
need to have a bit of a larger reactor
and if you have a bit of a larger
reactor you need to put a bit more fuel
in and then you can get that runaway
effect unfortunately the laws of physics
keep pushing Us in certain design um
decisions um
so that's I think been the challenge why
micro reactors and um smrs have never
been done before is that Material
Science is now catching up so for for
instance you've actually
described um something very close to a
solution that a lot of the big reactor
companies coming up with called tofu
which is um uran like uranium encased in
certain layers of um uh like lead and
to So eventually you can't get the fuel
melt and they're essentially pellets
that go into fuel space okay so that
gives me some sense I'd like to kind of
understand the most basic possible model
before Things become elaborated so can
we walk a bit through your technology
one of the things that I that struck me
about your technology was its
portability on the back of a truck I
mean I can imagine 50,000 reasons why
that might be extremely useful but
there's something that's kind of cool
about it too that you can just trundle
one of these things wherever it's needed
for emergencies for backup power um and
for remote communities which is all
obvious land mining sites and so forth
as you pointed out which is which is a
big deal in in place like Canada and
would also as far as I can tell would
open up the possibility especially in
places like the Northwest Territories
for mining where that's practically not
feasible because you can't build the
bloody hydroelectric lines you know
across 2,000 miles of tundra to fire up
a mine but with this provision of power
then I was also thinking it'd be pretty
damn useful hypothetically on the
desination front too because everybody's
jumping up and down about not having
enough water which strikes me as like
abysmally foolish given that 70% of the
planet or something like that is covered
by you know water some miles deep so I
don't think we're going to run out so so
walk me through the if you would to the
design of your
reactors and help me also understand why
they're not already everywhere okay um
so with our reactors um as you mentioned
we wanted them to be portable that there
was actually a business decision that
speared that on because we we thought
well if they can fit within an ISO
container as an example then you could
transport them by truck or by train um
or by just put it on the back of a
maritime vessel and you could ship these
things anyway you could even effectively
helicopter in now when you do that you
can straighten your design a little bit
so you've got to work within the
confines of an ISO container so you kind
of end up with almost a bath TP bath
shaped
um design but so we have two technical
teams one drawn principally out of
scientists and Engineers out of
University of berky California and the
other out of University of Cambridge but
we gave them the same Mo so it needs to
be transportable it needs to fit with an
is container it needs to be modular and
it needs to be able to passively cool
like we talked about earlier and they
had different solutions so the the US
team um they realized that if they take
the coolant out and you just have
uranium conventional fuel rod and it
radiates through a solid core then you
don't need pumps for a coolant at all
and then the whole mechanical system
shrink shrinks right down um so it's
it's basically the it's it's one of the
most basic designs you could probably
make um conductor a solid core and then
and then circulated air basically
removes heat from the periphery of that
core to a turbine and that's pretty much
oh really really so you're not using
you're not using liquid at all you're
just using
unless
you air as the liquid but that's
effectively their solution and I think
it's quite brilliant I'm bound to say
that but I do genuinely think that um
and the University of cambridge's
solution um was to um take a basic fuel
form uranium dioxide fuel Rod um and um
surround it with a solar salt but
introduce some um heat into that system
to create a natural circulation and then
as that circulates the uranium keeps
that momentum going and so then you can
take the pumps out you can take the
mechanical systems out and the system
shrinks right down okay and you said
that was salt that was salt based that
was salt based yes so it's
like right right right but the salt
isn't molten in that system so how is it
or or is it m molten or how how is the
heat transferred so it is it is
essentially liquid so it'll start off
but as you introduce heat um you create
that natural circulation and then the
heat of the uranium maintains that
natural circulation of salt and that
will remove heat from the fuel rods that
then you can remove heat to turbine and
so forth and so right and so how is the
turbine how is the turbine spun with
that system um with that system it's
it's a thermoelectric so um we're not in
the we're not going to design these
turbines but I mean if you think like a
um like a helicopter turbine or
something like that where your your
burning
high quality jet fuel to generate heat
and that heat is essentially moving that
turbine it's they're very con the good
thing about turbines is that right quite
similarly to each other right right well
they've been around for a long time so
that's a wellestablished technology now
you also worked for Rolls-Royce for a
while if I if I've got my fact straight
I did so I was Ministry of Defense
that's actually you mentioned submarines
earlier that's how I got my start in
nuclear I was involved in the
construction of uh manufacturing
facilities uh to produce reactor cores
but they they seconded me to Rolls-Royce
where I worked as a physicist in the
design of the next generation of nuclear
reactors for the Next Generation nuclear
submarines I see I see okay so that's a
logical segue into the into the
commercial Market that you're that
you're attempting to conquer now how
long have you guys been in operation so
actually not very long it was it was
only really about 2020 when we wanted to
really get the company doing and um I
was number two in the
organization um and um we came at it
obviously from that that background when
we were talking about why we why nuclear
why micro reactors um but what was quite
interesting is actually once we got into
the industry we realized that the US
infrastructure the nuclear
infrastructure had kind of atrophied a
little bit and it it had done that
because the us could Source enriched
material from Russia um weapons grade
material and then it could just down
blend that material for whatever
domestic need it wanted whether that was
military or um civil power plants um and
that that allowed it essentially to be
to not have to renew a lot of its system
so when we entered the um the nuclear
industry it was It was kind of alarming
that we thought we would have major
impediments to actually launching a
commercial company because of these
infrastructure problems so we we thought
actually this could be an opportunity so
we're looking to try and build our own
fuel fabrication facility or our own
deconversion facility or our own fuel
transportation system and hopefully like
we could be part of you know this
Renaissance of nuclear right right where
are you located so the head the
headquarters are in New York um so I'm
here I'm actually here at the moment um
but uh I'm actually I like I live in
Canada most of the time so I'm in where
do you live in Canada Vancouver and have
you have you had any contact say with
the government people in Saskatchewan
because I mean as you no doubt know
Saskatchewan has like uranium reserves
that are I think unparalleled in the
world and that don't really seem to be
being utilized all that efficiently and
so I mean it's such Insanity as far as I
can tell we have this in almost infinite
power supply at our hands and yet we've
turned to solar and wind we're trying to
Cobble together battery storage which as
far as I can tell isn't working that
well at the moment and um so
so well so that was the other question I
had is like another question I had why
aren't these already everywhere you you
pointed to transformation in material
technology and alluded to the fact that
maybe we're just at the point where this
has become economically VI viable and
scalable I are there are there like
regulatory problems are there problems
of a public perception as well that
constitute impediments I I would say
nuclear has suffered from the worst PR
and that might it might be partly
because governments have always been
involved in um the funding of these big
installations and the government don't
care about but like if I was to say to
somebody you know if you nuclear is the
safest of all energy forms like if even
safer than if you look at deaths per
gwatt hour nuclear beats out wind and it
beats out solar right is the safest
already and that's not even considering
that smrs and microact are still safer
than new big civil power plants right
right and you know things like Fukushima
or three M and get brought up but I have
to point out that nobody died in those
in those situations and really it's just
a cleanup operation I don't want to
trivialize but um it's I think it human
psychology is interesting I think
radiation might be more intimidating
because it's a danger you can't see and
so you can't understand the magnitude of
that danger consequently it's not like a
tiger in the room you can see and you
can assess and and that that maybe has
been an impediment okay well okay so
that that's well well we can understand
that I mean a huge part of the problem
that any company has to solve is the
marketing problem that's often 85% of
the problem even if it's a complex
technical problem and so then what about
what about government impediment or
other like sociological impediment
specifically to your progress where
where are you where are you getting
resistance and where are you seeing like
a well- paved Way Forward well the the
good part is that when we we did see a
lot of resistance but resistance in the
form of infrastructure not being in
place and just to take an example of
another company and they probably won't
mind me saying this is that um new scale
were the first company to license an SMR
in fact they're the only ones in the
world to do that um but they became
Under Fire because the costs of their
megawatt generation was more than they
thought it but to be fair to them
everything they had to do was first of
its kind and so it's like the first
pharmaceutical drug cost millions and
the second one costs nothing um and so
they got penalized for that but they if
there was an infrastructure in place
within the country to support everything
they did and manufacture the fuel and
parts they needed it would have been an
order of magnitude cheaper for a start
and logically nucleus should be the
cheapest form of energy um but you have
all your Capital costs up front which
can really distort that picture right
right in big projects like 70% of your
overall costs might be financing costs
related to that big front Capital cost
well you know one of the things it seems
to me that you from a PR perspective a
marketing perspective that there's a
there's a wide openen field of
opportunity on one side of this equation
that I don't think has been well
capitalized upon I mean first of all I
think you can make us you already made a
case for for
green um what would you say for for that
that nuclear power can be is a very
green form of energy at least at least
in principle especially when it's safely
delivered in the form that you're
delivering it and uh you made a case for
reliability and portability and all that
but there's another case that's just
begging to be made even additionally on
the environmental front and so the data
is quite clear that if you get people
around the world up to the point where
they're producing about $5,000 in US
dollars a year in GDP they start to take
a long-term view of the future they
become environmentally aware and that's
because they're not scrabbling around in
the dirt burning dung trying to figure
out where the next meal is coming from
and and willing to burn up and eat
everything around them so they don't
starve so it's it's clear that if you
get people we know that rich companies
get rich countries get cleaner that's
what happens and so obvious and we also
think at least that absolute privation
and poverty is bad because do we really
want starving people and stunted
children children and and all the misery
that goes along with that and so there's
this opening it seems to me for people
who are in a position to provide at
scale inexpense of energy to say look we
could feed the world's poor because
there's a direct relationship between
energy and wealth like more direct than
anything else energy equals wealth and
now we can make all the poor people in
the world rich in a nonzero some Manner
and as soon as we did that they'd start
to care about the environment so like
where's where what's the problem with
that and and and well and what do you
think of that as a marketing campaign
let's say well you you you've outlined
our marketing campaign because um when
we were building up the company and we
were making some very big connections
one of them we were talking to some
African diplomats and they were
mentioning to us you know one
significant issue that Africa faces as
the continent is that there's large
sections of population that are
completely removed from grid systems and
so that means diesel generators but the
problem there again is that you need a
constant supply of diesel to be brought
into those generators for R so their
supplies it missed um if you have a
micro reactor system um we touched on it
earlier like desalination plants medical
facilities a micro reactor could be put
there and you've got 15 years of power
for a community and then it's and it's
consistent too um and then you can have
that $5,000 per capita wealth to create
more long-term strategic thinking and um
you know been to Africa enough and seen
these these poor areas to know that like
when you're scrambling around in the
dirt your considerations are very short
term because they have to otherwise
you're going to die and so it's it's
it's a situation that begets you know um
you know very damaging decisions for for
the the larger
Community can your savings weather
another economic storm think about what
you've put away for the future inflation
can render cash worthless and even real
estate can crash as it did in 20 8
during times of economic uncertainty or
Market volatility investors tend to
flock to gold as a safe haven asset its
value tends to increase during turbulent
times providing a buffer against Market
downturns this is why people are
flocking to gold now and why Birch gold
is busier than ever Birch gold
understands that navigating financial
decisions can be daunting that's why
their dedicated in-house Ira department
is there to guide you every step of the
way Birch gold is committed to
addressing your questions and concerns
promptly their team is always ready to
provide answers and Clarity whether it's
about fees taxes on rollovers or the
timing of the process they are here to
ensure you feel valued and well informed
text Jordan to 98 9898 to talk to one of
birch Gold's experts and claim your free
info kit on gold you'll learn how to
convert an existing Ira or 401K into a
tax sheltered Ira in Gold the best part
is it doesn't cost you a penny out of
pocket just text Jordan to 9898 98
that's Jordan to 9898 98 today
right right well that's the that's the
environmental cost of poverty like we we
scream in the west all the time about
the environmental cost of wealth but the
environmental cost of poverty is way
higher way higher and so and this is
something I can't figure out I cannot
figure out why the greens don't get this
because in principle they're on the left
and the leftists in principle are on the
side of the poor but when it
comes but like the thing is like I take
Germany as example like the green lobby
got into essentially a position of power
within that country and they're
effectively left with um yeah and they
they were very they heavily campaigned
against nuclear to push for other
renewable Solutions so they pushed
heavily into wind and solar but the
result of that was that the country no
longer could power itself it had to buy
Power from from Poland which was
manufactured by coal and it had to and
liite liite coal right not not just coal
but the worst kind of coal yeah I know
brilliant brilliant which is which is
incredibly polluting and and and they
also had to buy um ironically um energy
from France which was generated by
nuclear power so right right the costs
the costs of the German went up for
their power and they became their carbon
footprint right right so we we want to
we want to dwell on that for a minute so
the consequence of the green movement in
Germany was that power let's let's lay
it out power is five times more
expensive than it should have been the
Germans became reliant on fossil fuels
to a degree that they weren't before
including reliant on Putin which turned
out to be a very bad idea let's point
out plus and and Germany is now in the
throws of de-industrialization so the
poor are going to get a hell of a lot
poor and you might say well that's all
worthwhile because we're so much Greener
but the truth of the matter is is that
Germany now has among the world's
dirtiest energy per unit because of
their idiotic policy so they didn't just
fail on the economic IC front entirely
and make the poor poorer they failed by
their own standards because the bloody
goal was to decrease pollution and what
they did instead was increase it per
unit of energy and not just a little bit
a lot and so this just bedevils me
because I cannot I cannot put my finger
on why it it is that the leftists are
simultaneously pro- environment Pro poor
people and anti-nuclear it's like sorry
guys you don't get to have all three of
them you can have two yeah I imagine
there's a lot of posturing here and and
it's yeah yeah it's not just say that
all right well yes but like as an
example like I was working in Utah once
and there was this I was working in this
small little town and there was a
massive Co power plant there and I was
like oh so this this power is Utah and
they're like oh no we we send all of
this power straight to California I was
like why and they're like well they shut
down a lot of their power plants um so
so they can claim that they've greened
essentially um but really they're still
they're still powering their Teslas off
coal um that's being generated in Utah
and so it's it's the same kind of Optics
well you know Californians in Utah and
and the inhabitants what are uto utonium
I have no idea what you call people from
Utah what's I have no idea anyways you
know that California and people from
Utah they don't breathe the same
atmosphere it's like China in the United
States completely different a Supply as
everyone knows so yeah well one of the
reasons I like to talk to Engineers is
because they don't get to posture like
the thing that's cool about engineers is
their stupid stuff either works or it
doesn't and it's very unforgiving and so
you know and and uh yeah it's okay the
Dei people and this and the the uh the
politically correct types they're going
to take all you Engineers out too so you
better get prepared well as a as a my
days might be numbered so yeah well plus
you're an engineer man you've got a lot
of things you know a lot of strikes
again you so okay okay so so we we've
we've made a case for for um for these
small these micro reactors now I'd like
to know and you you alluded to something
quite interesting you know you said that
when you first started to contemplate
doing this in the American environment
you realized that there was a lot of um
a lot of industrial and infrastructure
pieces that needed to be in place that
had been allowed to Decay because the
Americans had had a reliable supply of
file material from the Soviet Union as a
consequence of its collapse and so a lot
of things were left to disintegrate
let's say but now you've realized that
that's also another Economic Opportunity
so it sounds to me like you guys are
planning to build a what would you say
from the ground up Enterprise that will
allow for these micro reactors to exist
so then I I want to know where you are
how how you came to that CL conclusion
where you are in that process and then
again because I have a particular
interest in western Canada I'm curious
about you know H how these ideas have
been received in places like
Saskatchewan so I would say
um there's there's like three questions
there y yep yep so um how how these
things have been received like let's
start with that one so yeah um I think
certain territories like Alberta become
very friendly to the idea of powering a
lot of their remote Industries even the
oil sands operations with nuclear power
right right right right and that's an
incredibly energy intensive
industry um and so there has been
support voiced for the and there's like
an invest Alberta program which is
looking actually to bring in smrs but
that's not ubiquitous across the whole
country like you don't you wouldn't see
the same receptiveness from say British
Columbia where I am currently it's it's
again
certain more industry friendly provinces
would would drift in that sort of area
and I I think obviously Toronto well the
Ontario the greater Ontario area came to
the conclusion that nuclear had already
provided a substantial portion of the
energy um for the province and um they
didn't want to substitute that for um
more more fossil fuels so they they've
gone back and invested in is Canada
actually has a pretty decent I quite
like the reactors they put together the
can do
reactors and they also they almost
generated their entire independent
industry because they opted for designs
that weren't being widely used across
the world so Canada is actually in a
very strong position to build out their
own SMR industry if they invest properly
now um in doing that otherwise they're
they're going to suffer in the same way
that the United States is suffering from
getting going now and another thing you
mentioned is why we why we saw these
problems we saw big companies like take
Terra power it's it's a big SMR company
and it's backed by Bill Gates so there's
there's no shortage of money for this
thing to get going but they effectively
did could not find enough fuel to put
into their reactors to complete the test
work and we thought that's very
interesting so what happened there well
they effectively had to shut down for
two years and that's the worst thing
that possibly happen because you just
burn cash and so they probably probably
going to burn through hundreds of
millions of dollars and so the advantage
you know W A wise man can learn from the
mistakes of others so hopefully we just
saw that and we thought well if we can't
we're not backed by Bill Gates so we
can't afford to make a hundred million
dollar mistake like that or a billion
dollar mistake like that and
so really before we saw the US
government realized that there was a
significant problem which which very
closely mirrored the Ukraine war when
relationships began to become very
strange and they began pushing a lot of
funding opportunities out there to build
back their infrastructure and they're
doing that now but it's it's still come
a bit late and so the advantage we had
is we started doing that before these
funding opportunities from the US
government came out to build uh
conversion facilities deconversion
facilities fuel fabrication enrichment
facilities because otherwise if if
Russia cut off the states now and
they're still they are still through
back channels dealing in the supply of
Rich teranium because the US can't
afford to go without it um they don't
but they don't want to have those
channels open anymore and they they they
want to cut ties but they can't do it
and you mentioned earlier that Germany
lost sovereignty over it over itself
partially because it it couldn't P
itself it was reliant on Russian gas
right that's a situation no country
really wants to you want to be have
Sovereign energy um you know absolutely
otherwise your diplomatic strength is
completely gone and um yeah well you'd
think that no country would want that
but when you watch the policies that
they're pursuing uh a sensible person
would conclude that that's exactly what
they want and I I I do believe that
posturing has a very a very large amount
to do with that because almost all of
the green idiocy is is narcissistic
posturing it's the pretense of doing
good without doing any of the actual
work okay so walk me through where you
okay so explain to everybody who's
watching and
listening how you're involved right from
the place where the uranium is still in
the ore in the ground like what has to
happen at each step along the way so
that the fuel actually gets to one of
your reactors and how how is your
company situated to make that happen and
where are you in that process so
starting at the very basic uranium
mining you mentioned this scatch
deposit so you you you mine the uranium
but the ore is effectively not very
useful for anything but you you you
subject that or to a leeching process
and you create a yellow cake which is
essentially more concentrated uranium um
that then would be shipped off for a
conversion where we sit in that is that
we've actually reached out to Central
Asia where almost the majority of the
world's uranium is currently being mined
it doesn't to come from but say there
are big deposits in like Wyoming and
skatan that are not producing uranium
readily now in enough quantities to meet
the demand and so it is coming from
abroad I believe those domestic deposits
will we built up now that the uranium
price is rising because like cop 28
announces trip the necessity to Triple
nuclear energy by 2040 or whatever it is
so that that is having an effect on the
uranium price which is encouraging Mine
Development but the problem with mining
is that it can take five years from a
green field deposit to get to a to a
mine and so you always have that lag and
if the lag if during that lag the
uranium price drops and that could even
hit that might even coming to commercial
production so it's it's there's a lot of
risk associated with you know not having
your own domestic facilities in place so
we have reached out to them we do have
an ability at the President office
within certain countries in Central Asia
to Source uranium directly if we should
need it and we've even talked with the
largest uranium materials broker in the
world to make sure that we have a supply
of that because no business wants to
make wants to like have the risk that
you have all you build all these
facilities and reactors and
Manufacturing facilities but the the raw
material that fuels all this isn't there
so that there's that component to it too
well do you worry do you worry that
you're dealing with these like say
Central Asian again it it it I bring it
brings me back to the same thing well if
you have could have a resource in
Wyoming or let's say in Saskatchewan
that seems to me to be a lot more
geopolitically stable in any real sense
than trying to Source something Halfway
Around the World in countries that are
definitely not politically stable and so
so why were you compelled to go seek out
suppliers elsewhere well the the it's
the immediacy of Supply like they are
able to supply material now and that is
over we have a mine and it's at even
feasibility level you still need to put
the mine works in place the processing
plant in place processing plant from
uranium operation could be quarter of a
billion dollars and take three years to
build and so we want to make sure that
does it have to take three years to
build I mean you know because things do
move a lot they could move a lot faster
now than they once did and I'm you know
I also wonder are there improvements in
technology that are in the pipelines
that would make it possible to do it in
like a year instead of three years if
people actually decided they you know I
mean Germany built new natural gas
importing terminals in months when they
needed to so like we can actually move
pretty quick if we decided it was a good
idea so okay so you said immediacy of
Supply that's what drove you to Central
Asia but it would be better perhaps if
there were domestic supplies that were
at least in the pipelines let's say
domestic Supply from saskat or Wyoming
would be would be a lot better of of
course they would there's there there's
no geopolitical well there's less
geopolitical
uncertainty um and like for instance
even in Central Asia like they do Supply
China and Russia still with the Uranian
that they need for their own programs
too so you're competing against other
countries which are potentially hostile
to the the states or Canada or places
like that and if they're looking to wage
an economic War we'll look for more
exclusive contracts and so you then are
in a competing position for material you
can't control right seems like a bad
yeah like from a geopolitical
perspective that seems unwise let's put
it that way so I can understand why you
guys are doing it commercially because
as you said you can't afford the delay
and fair enough okay so now do you have
a stable Supply fundamentally can you
get can you get moving with what you're
doing you can so um the the good part
about what we're doing now is we've
we've ensured that we have broken enough
good relations with certain countries
that we can Source the material if we
wanted we we're not in the business of
enrichment but we could do things like
conversion and get it into a uranium
hexafluoride gas which can go to a
licensed enrichment company like um
orano or centrus and they could enrich
the material for us and once gas so
what's the relationship between the gas
and the yellow cake so what you want to
do with yellow cake is what once it's
been concentrated by that leeching
process is that you it's easier to
enrich a gas um uh than it is say say
yellow cake which which you could use a
centrifugal system but um but gas is
certainly lot easier to maneuver and so
um if you would take the yellow cake and
you would expose it to several chemical
processes to turn it into uranium
hexafluoride and it's actually the
enrichment companies will enrich uranium
Flora to produce um well whatever you
want so um enriched enriched whatever
level the customer needs it but at that
point it actually needs to be
deconverted back to a solid oh yeah so
our company actually wants to build out
that infrastructure for the country too
so take that uranium hexafluoride
convert it to dioxide hydde sorry
uranium dioxide uranium hydde Anum metal
whatever the the market will need um so
that's one element and then fabrication
facility to tailor it for the specific
reactor so essentially fashion it into
Dimensions composition um mold it with
zonum whatever they want and then and
then sell that and the final part of
what we want to do is build out a
transportation company um so we can
actually transport that around North
America
too how would you transport it so we've
actually been spending about a year
doing this but um we've got a patented
technology now um for a c system that
can transport the most amount of um uh
enriched material uh so Halo material so
it's enriched up to almost 20% around
North America and we're just in the
process of getting that license now with
the with the regulator okay so okay so
that's okay so you you've been working
on solving the transportation problem
and so what are the problems associated
with transport that you've had had to
solve and how did you solve those so the
fundamental problem with transport is
that you cannot have uranium critically
configured what I mean by that right if
you if you uranium is only actually
really radioactive if you push it all
together which is the basis of a bomb
really if you push it together then it
be it triggers itself more and it sets
off a chain reaction and it's the
reactivity creates the heat um so
effectively for Road regulations you
have to you have to store the material
in a structured way to make sure it's
not critical but it doesn't end there
there's a lot of other regulations
surrounding that so is it going to be
hit by a plane or a misfile or is it
going to fall underwater or is it going
to fall or what are the heat conditions
going to be cold can it be warm and you
got to all these safety scenarios so
designing a transportation CK that fits
within a truck that can move a lot of
material by road is a bit of an
engineering challenge but I don't think
it's that that difficult but um it's
it's certainly something that has not
been in place previously because for
smrs and micro reactors the uranium is
enriched slightly more and because it's
enriched slightly more you need a
completely new CK system and so that's
where we thought oh we'll jump on that
and build that out and that way um when
the industry does take off the SMR mic
we'll have the transportation able to
move fuel for all the okay so does that
mean I see so that means that your
transportation system in principle is
not only designed to service your micro
reactors but to be expanded to service
these slightly larger reactors the smrs
yeah the good part that's the plan yeah
that's the plan so we don't I mean we
we're not in the business where we want
the other competitors to fail if they
win we'll win right yes yes right
absolutely yeah the right number of
competitors isn't zero no exactly yeah
and also we want them to succeed because
um they'll build out the infrastructure
they'll generate more money within the
country for this industry and we'll be
we'll be beneficiaries of that too and
they want to move fuel we'll help them
move fuel they want to fabricate fuel
will fabricate it for them even if they
outs sell our reactors it's fine like
right so you can also be in on you can
also be in on their success in that
situation too as okay so that's cool
okay so you said you've got a supply at
least at the moment in Central Asia that
gets uh reduced to by leeching to yellow
cake the yellow cake is transformed into
uh uranium hydro hydro what's the name
of the gas yeah hexafluoride
hexafluoride uranium hexif floride that
can be uh concentrated and then
converted back into about
20% you said uhuh and so why 20% and
then and what and you can transport it
at 20% and you can do that safely and
you can do that by rail by Ship by car
or or by uh By by Train and and so now
you have the 20% enriched material what
do you do with that when you get it to
where it's supposed to go so um it
depends where it's going so if it's
going to um if it's the 20% enriched
uranium hex floride that'll need to be
converted into uranium dioxide hydride
whatever fuel form you want effectively
oh so are you transporting the gas we go
well we don't want to I don't want to
speak preemptively okay that well that's
fine yeah but actually no it's fine we
do want to Branch take our CK and ify it
so it can move gas um I see okay okay
the anticipation is that currently um we
are building out a deconversion plan to
be able to convert that gas into other
forms and then when they're in other
forms um it's easier to fabricate into
the final uranium um form that the
customers might want okay okay okay and
how how far how far along are you when
you're thinking
pessimistically in solving these this
because you've got a you've got a bunch
of problems as you laid out you've got
the supply problem which you seem to
have solved now you've got the
transportation problem which is also a
huge opportunity so that's cool because
that gives you multi-dimensional access
to the market you got the transportation
problem and it sounds like that's
twofold there's a technical element
there's a regulatory element I suppose
there's going to be a public relations
element to that too but whatever okay so
now you can move the stuff around now
you've got these deconversion plants
that are going to help you formulate the
fuel you need to run your reactors and
then you have the problem of building
the reactors and getting them to where
they're supposed to go so four streams
of problems that have to move together
somewhat simultaneously how how far
along are you on each of those streams
so if I was if it was a pessimistic
timeline I would say I mean we've been
working at this for a fair amount of
time I would say that the first line of
business that we anticipate being
commercially ready to deploy would
probably be the Transportation actually
because oh yeah we have the patented
technology we we've already approached
the
licensing company to a regulator to do
the licensing for us and we've actually
brought in the former Executives of I
don't want to say the name but the
largest um transportation company in the
world which might give it away but we've
brought in some of the former Executives
from their organization to build out the
company around the technology and so I
believe that might be the first
commercially Deployable business
the timeline on that probably looks like
finish the
licensing hopefully sometime next year
um and then the buildout of the
manufacturing facility to produce the
cks as well as
the the infrastructure around the cks to
fit into trucks and things like that
we'll do that simultaneously probably
finish that sometime about
2026 hopefully in 2026 2027 we would
have um a commercial vehicle ready to
start moving material around North
America that would be okay so that's
pretty it's pretty fast okay
well and if you were if you if you were
optimistic what would you say oh I would
say hopefully the licensing will runs
all smoothly while that's going on we
build out the manufacturing facilities
we have them finished next year um and
then we're in a position to begin
initially deploying vehicles that can
move um enrich material up to 20% around
country so maybe I shave two years off
that if I'm super optimistic um okay so
that gives us a range okay so now if you
had the opportunity to work with a state
or provincial legislature that was like
helpful in every way they possibly could
be what would that look like what would
you need from them is there is there
anything you need from from like a
particular local jurisdiction that would
speed what you're doing along I I would
say the big thing on that topic is that
the the regulatory process just for any
reactor micro reactor SMR or big civil
power plant is probably at minimum four
years oh yeah that's just no good that's
terrible problem the problem I think and
they're probably GNA see this podcast
and be angry with me but I think they
they're trying to apply a civil power
plant regulatory framework to a micro
reactor a different product and it
almost its own regulatory framework to
be designed
so You' need a You' Need A legislature
that was willing to consider the fact
that this isn't the same old industry
yes yeah it's it's a new product it's a
new industry and it's essentially all
new technologies and if they were to
design some sort of regulatory framework
that just looked at say safety criteria
for where these things could deploy like
uh met certain sizmic conditions or
temperature constraints or ranges um
then the reactor would would be approved
for deploying anywhere as long as it met
this criteria I think if they right
right right it could really allow for
one the deployment of these things
absolutely everywhere and and it would
really be a much faster process because
they're also much more basic I mean it's
it's come about because of advances in
technology but the the technology itself
once it's built is it's more basic than
the right right right right right well
so do do you have a jurisdiction with
whom you're having productive
discussions that is simultaneously
capable of understanding that this is a
new technological front that would be
hypothetically will I mean because the
economic opportunities here are extreme
if it's done right and so you'd think if
you were optimistic that there might be
a legislature somewhere in the 50 states
in the United States and the 12 places
that this could happen in Canada that
might be open to such an opportunity I
mean are you having productive
discussions with people who could
conceivably clear away the Reg
regulatory hurdles so we we have
obviously made contact with the
Department of energy in in the states
and um we've obviously broed this topic
that this is something that should be
considered it's not that they're unaware
that this might be a good idea too it's
just they also need funding to implement
new legislation or get approvals from
Congress um or how it works in the
states and there's good bipartisan
support in the states for new clear but
it still needs to go through the
approval process um where you get the
the Senate signing off on things and so
and they do need funding to put this new
regulatory framework in so when they
give it to a regulator like the nuclear
regulat commission the NRC it can design
that new framework um and it needs to
obviously employ people to do that what
well what kind of funding is necessary
to do that like I I'm trying to get a
real handle on the impediments you know
because the the advantages are so Stark
and obvious and we've done some pretty
extraordinary things on the idiot wind
and solar front and in relatively short
order so you wouldn't think that this is
that this is impossible so so like what
sort of funding is necessary if you're
starting a a new regulatory Enterprise
essentially from scratch designed around
this new technology I don't understand
the necessity for this great expense and
and and spending of time no I I think
really it could be done if I'm honest it
could be done very very quickly I think
the problem is that um say like a
department of energy they run into
needing more funding to create a smaller
Department to design a framework and
then they could be waiting on that
funding for a long time as as Government
debated but actually if if Government
were very in favor of it I'm sure on
both sides of the aisle there would be
General support for just a small amount
money okay so let me ask another
practical
question if I said um do you have a
20page document that would outline an
intelligible regulatory framework that
you could hand to a legislator who was
you know positively predis opposed to
you like do you guys have that because
you know one of the easiest ways to get
people to say yes to anything is to make
it extremely easy for them right and to
provide them with us exactly exactly
because if you're saying well you have
to whip up a regulatory structure from
scratch and you have to take all the
political risk they're going to say yeah
five years from now and we'll let other
people do it and it'll take forever but
if you can hand them a tailor made
solution essentially I know that runs
you into the problem of you know
government industry collusion but that's
a secondary problem as far as I'm
concerned because this isn't collusion
it's joint it's joint effort to move
forward something that would be of great
benefit to people you know then so and
if it happens to be of benefit to your
company it's also going to be of benefit
to many of the other companies that you
described too so do you have a set of
proposals at hand that you could Supply
to an interested legislative party yes I
mean to be honest that would take us a
few weeks just to put together like a
proper okay well that's not long few
weeks is long you know because I can
imagine some people who might be
interested in taking a look at something
like that oh well look if they were very
interested I'd be very interested in
that conversation and we our scientists
would be very happy to prepare a formal
document that outlines a proposal for
how these things could
be like it would have to be a very high
level thing but I down but essentially
the the criteria for approving the
safety of these things for deployment on
mass to different locations and it is
very different because um like a big
civil power plant you have you have a a
site regulation process where they it
has to be site specific and you tailor
your um your safety case for that
specific site yeah for reactor you
wouldn't do that it would be a different
process where there is a safety criteria
that you need to meet but as long as the
site meets that safety criteria the
reactor can deploy that so it's it's
fundamentally
different if you're always trying to
stay healthy while on the go if you're
on the lookout for products to boost
your immune strength and gut health you
need to check out Arma Arma is the gift
that keeps on giving it'll help
strengthen your skin lungs and gut
barriers optimize your microbiome and
activate cellular performance to revive
whole body Health armor products are not
just effective they're also your trusted
companions they're clean safe and have a
solid foundation of extensive research
manufactured under the most stringent
testing and quality standards in cgmp
and FDA certified facilities armor is a
brand you can rely on every day
chemicals pollutants pathogens and
process ingredients pose a threat to our
mental and physical well-being the need
for protection is more pressing than
ever if you want to give armor a try
they have a special offer for Jordan's
listeners right now you'll receive 15%
off your first order go to tr arm.com
Jordan or enter Jordan checkout for 15%
off that's TR y AR rm.com Jordan TR
ara.com Jordan or enter code Jordan
checkout right right right right well
this is exactly it seems to me that this
is exactly the sort of thing that has to
be dealt with in the kind of detail that
legislators would appreciate so that
that differentiation is not only made
conceptually but made in a manner that
would be credible to like investigative
news reporters and so forth and people
who are skeptical about this but I mean
I do know
that technical problems are one thing
and obviously you guys are capable of
solving them but it's very very easy for
a whole industry to fall into a mess of
red tape and never get out and certainly
that's happened on the nuclear side of
things and so that's just not good and
it's it's once I see I realized I I I
worked I'm ashamed to admit this to some
degree but I worked on a panel years ago
10 years ago something like that which
was one of the early un documents on
sustainability and I worked on that for
about two years and I learned a lot
about how such things were made how such
sausage was made let's put it that way
but I also learned a lot about the Nexus
between energy and environment and one
of the things that really and and
economics one of the things that really
struck me and I never forgot it was the
fact that soon as you make people Rich
they start to care about the environment
and I thought oh my God that's such a
wonderful thing to learn because it
means that we could deal with the
problem of absolute part and we could
deal with environmental sustainability
in the same way okay what's key it's
clear what's key it's easy it's cheap
energy period And so okay so then the
next question is well where are the
available energy sources and obviously
one answer to that is with continued use
of fossil fuel but we see the
geopolitical trouble that's laid in
front of us because of that and there
are problems of pollution although
especially with coal although they're
not as grotesque as they've been made
out to be but nuclear you think nuclear
I mean I read tell me if this is true I
read that part of the reason that
nuclear is safer than solar is because
people fall off the roof all the time
installing solar panels and that you
know and PE falling is actually like the
fifth leading cause of death it's no
joke right so falling is really hard it
but it's true like and also if you look
at wind power too there's there's a
significant number of Falls that are
generated by the installation of these
and they need constant maintenance which
means there is a constant stream of
people going up and down these things
death which is why when I men there a
stupid solution low energy density like
they're know they're not a good solution
and solar I mean one of the things I've
really watched in the last five years
say as these big solar and wind projects
come on especially in Alberta because
I've been watching the Alberta power
situation it's
like the the price of electricity goes
to infinite on windless and sunless days
okay infinite is a bad price that's a
very bad price and you can't have
unreliable you can't have an unreliable
reliable grid that doesn't work so and I
don't see a solution to that I mean tell
me if I've got this wrong so my
understanding is that fundamental the
fundamental problem with a renewable
grid is the phasic nature of the power
and because it's phasic you have to have
backup it's like Well it can't be
nuclear because it takes too long for
them to get online at least in their
current form so you have to have natural
gas and fossil fuel backup or coal and
if you have to have the backup then why
not just use the systems because you're
not going to build two parallel systems
like who in the right Germans would do
that you know and that's that's insane
you know one of the things I thought was
funny when I first moved to Canada is
that I was I was actually living up in
Yellow knife in Northwest Territories
for a few months and it's an interesting
place to live for a little while um but
I was I someone mentioned that the whole
city was powered on diesel I said that's
crazy this is a city of like can't
remember 40,000 people or something like
that it it was fairly significant and I
was like why and they're like oh the dam
is broken I was like can't they fix the
dam it's like well they can't really
like it's it's blocked up and it's
winter it's difficult to get people up
there and so we're just been running off
diesel generators as far as I know it's
still running off those diesel
generators and I I was there six or
seven years ago um so that's think how
much diesel there's yeah well there's
nothing more permanent than a temporary
fix especially if the government happs
to be yeah absolutely absolutely and so
right right well and and Yellow Knife is
isolated and so the fact that all that
diesel has to be brought in all that
means is that it's really really
expensive to live in Yellow Knife that's
the outcome yeah there was another uh
there was another Province who I think
it was in Yellow Knife too they were
talking to us about there was this there
was a community of about 800 people um
one of the first nation settlements up
there and they they the outline of the
diesel alone if you ignore the logistics
and Manpower and the cost of generators
was $10 million Al loone for just the
diesel by itself for 800 people for a
year and I thought well that's crazy
like that's that's an enormous expense
for just 800 people um right right right
no that's right it's well there's many
crazy things going on and and and there
all that posturing that you described
combined with a tremendous technological
ignorance of of of the of the most
Stellar sort means that we are putting
it in place solutions that cause way
more problems than they solve this just
isn't acceptable it's not acceptable and
look I I never want to denigrate fossil
fuels too much because I believe they
definely have a place and they've been
of enormous asset to humanity and I and
people talk about zero as in going to
zero yeah that's insan that's insane
that's completely insane also just not
practical I even if you were to stop all
power by what about textile industry or
the down stream products of of the
fossil fuel indry Plastics you're never
going to eliminate them completely and
so it's it's foolish without eliminating
a lot of people yes yes yes yes and that
seems to be the plan well you could
imagine a world where we used fossil
fuels as chemical as a basis for
chemical production like fertilizer for
example because we're not going to
substitute nuclear for for fertilizer
right so but yeah there's no one
solution for every aspect of humanity is
very complex existence but everything
could have a very very well fitted place
and to be honest micro reactors are in a
much better position to power remote
communities like yellan than diesel
whereas obviously nuclear is never going
to replace you know fossil fuels for
producing fertilizers right right right
right well and and we shouldn't be
burning arguably we shouldn't be burning
up our fossil fuels when we need it for
chemical for chemical stock I mean
that's that seems to me so why not okay
so let's let be optimistic here for a
minute so so let's imagine that you
cleared the regulatory hurdles and now
you you you've managed to transport your
file material safely and you can build
start building these reactors okay now
and people clue in and we can start to
build a resilient power grid as a
consequence now you can start
manufacturing at scale right in
principle so how much how uniform a
product are you making at the microa
Factor level like is this something this
assembly line manufacturer and can you
drive down the cost in with volume yeah
so this is actually it is that the
economy of scale here is the real
benefit so if you're producing two or
three of these a year it's very
expensive but if you're produce of these
it actually gets very cheap and the good
thing about micro actors which has not
been possible before is that it allows
for very easy manufacturing because
they're they're simple enough to do so
there's no reason why you can't have a
production just 3D prints these things
and then that the costs come down very
quickly and then and then you are
cheaper than a diesel generator and once
you are cheaper than diesel generator
and that will take a few years um to be
fair but once you do get to that
point there will be no real logical
reason to use anything but microaces in
these remote locations mining sites out
okay well let's go be okay let's go
let's expand beyond that so now let's
assume that you can use this printing
technology that you described and you
said the scale the economies of scale
start to kick in at how many reactors a
year I I would say actually really about
15 and then that sort of points more
economic it's actually very low in fact
I think Idaho National Laboratory
concluded that it was something like
nine I don't want to Mis okay okay so
it's a very low okay so let's Okay so
let's expand our our vision momentan and
say that you could produce a thousand of
these things a year and that and that
they were distributed widely enough to
start putting some back resilient
backbone into the power supply and start
to substitute for for natural gas and
for and for coal well we could start
with coal okay so what if if everything
went as well as could possibly be
expected on this front how how far down
do you think you could drive the price
of energy like compared to what it is
now well I mean that's very interesting
because if the ear infrastructure was in
place
and you had domestic production of
uranium um and we upgraded our
enrichment facilities but domestically
which they we currently don't have um
and you Mass manufacturing these things
I mean I'd hate to put a price on it but
like yeah there's no reason why you
can't keep optimizing that system to
keep making it incrementally cheaper so
even right okay so you're driving down
the price you're driving down it and to
be smrs it's it's not our business but
those guys their costs will also fall
commensurately with hows are falling too
because there's no reason why they can't
Mass manufacture those things to be
major components of a major grid system
so it's a more robust system that's
getting cheaper all the time um there's
no reason why that couldn't have the
beneficial effect well that's well
that's ridiculously exciting all of that
and so yeah well seriously seriously I
mean that's such an optimistic
possibility okay well let's let's okay
let's be smart about this let's talk
about downsides now we talked about the
fact that people are afraid of nuclear
technology now in principle that could
be handled with a marketing strategy
that wasn't based on lies that provided
accurate information about the fact that
this was essentially a new technological
approach and that could go in lock step
with the provision of the Mater the
legislative material right you can
imagine a parallel campaign so that
seems to me to be a solvable problem now
okay some terrorist hijacks one of your
trucks how about that so the the the
Assumption there is they're going to
turn into some sort of weapon um or
spill it or spill it so let's let's
think let's think about how they would
have to do that so if they were to seize
your microact or your
SMR um the problem they have is that the
uranium is not enriched to a weapons
grade level so they can't make it blow
up and it's also alloyed so they'd have
to build a multi-billion dollar facility
chemical plant to to recover the uranium
and separate it from the alloy and then
okay so that that okay so so that's just
not a danger what about what about what
about stealing one of your trucks and
threatening people publicly with like
radiation I know look I already
understand I I want to put this in
context because it seems to me that
anybody who hijacked a propane truck
would be in a pretty good position to
cause a lot of Mayhem so and you know or
derail a derail a p a train that that is
carrying fossil fuel so we have plenty
of risk like that already in the system
so do you where do you see where if
anywhere do you see the kind of risk to
the public that can be could be
leveraged by someone crooked who wanted
to cause
trouble well just just to touch on that
quickly if they if they seized it the
problem they have people use examples of
things like dirty bombs which is where
you
attach bomb but the problem with the
reactor uranium is that it's it's not
going to explode if you reactors can't
blow up for a start like they're not
enriched to a suitable level enough if
you were to take the uranium out of it
and strap it to a bomb the most
dangerous thing is the bomb that you've
made not the uranium around the B
actually right if you blow up uranium it
becomes less dangerous because You'
separated the material so it's going to
react less with itself and become right
so you could imagine that you could
imagine that as a public relations
disaster fundamentally yeah because you
can imagine how that would be played up
but but again I don't think that puts
you in a category that's any different
than you know people who are moving
fossil fuel from place to place cuz
that's that's more risky that's at least
as no it's more risky because it's much
more explosive it's much more explosive
and it's dirtier actually like obviously
if you had a dirty bomb you'd have to
pick up the pieces of UR radium no one's
going to get hurt but like it's still
You' need to maybe cordon off for a
microct maybe up 100 100 meters either
way but it's still not very say the BP
oil spill I think some of the effects
that are still being felt so it's it's
it's a lot
it's a lot cleaner cleanup operation um
right right right I think it's It's
Tricky I I don't want to sound like it's
all perfect but you know what's a
terrorist going to do with a microactive
from Heat's house you know
it's that's there is a good advertising
campaign right yeah mic reactor heat
your
house right right right all right well
okay so now let's see we've
covered we've covered timeline we've
we've covered the your process
essentially okay maybe we could talk a
little bit more about the micro reactor
technology per se so um what is it about
the technology that makes it amenable to
mass
manufacturer and why does that drive the
price down and where are you in the
manufacturing process okay so the the
good part is that like if you think
about those big civil power plants
they're huge they take up I don't know
30 30 city blocks they're absolutely
enormous but there's an enormous Quant
of mechanical
components um pumps all sorts of systems
that go into that as it should be that's
fine but as you shrink down to SMR and
you Shri down to micro reactor a lot of
that goes away and we actually in as say
one of our reactors have hardly any
mechanical components at all and so then
then you can get to the point where you
can 3D print these which you couldn't do
for more complicated mechanical systems
where it's a bit more finicky um and
that does allow for m production of
these things whereas mass production for
larger Machinery that's more intricate
becomes harder you can obviously still
3D print components and piece them
together but there's still a lot more
engineering work and um uh human
involvement that would be necessary to
to compete those whereas a lot of that
can be automated I think as you get
simpler and simpler well so you've
pointed to something very interesting
there which we've kind of brought over
is that you know you basically said
something approximating almost no moving
Parts okay and that that's not something
that should be brushed over because
that's quite remarkable because the
fewer moving Parts the fewer things that
can go wrong so that's a big deal but
that's also simpler more understandable
it's more marketable too because people
can understand it and but also it's as
you pointed out it's much more
manufacturable so to what degree have
you reduced the moving part
complexity like when you say there's
virtually no moving Parts how many parts
are there
fundamentally so I would say take our
Zeus reactor just as an example that's a
bit further along like there are moving
Parts say control rods that are inserted
into the core and control rods are to
moderate the reactivity so they go in
they eat up neutrons if Comes This
reactive and that's how you control
Power essentially as well so that is a
moving part and that does require
mechan um but the it does need fewer
safety mechanisms involved than a much
larger reactor because a much larger
reactor or an SMR will have the ability
to overheat and have a core melt or
coolant loss and a core melt which is
then leads to the reactor being
essentially destroyed and needing to be
cleaned up like you got in Fukushima
when that reactor essentially melted and
then you just had to spray it with water
that really can't happen with a microact
because it can't overheat to a point
where it will melt and so you don't need
as many Dundon systems in place um in
case wasn't wasn't it a safety system
that went wrong that caused the Three
Mile Island trouble I read that it was
like a safety camera that broke off and
got lodged in a exhaust pipe something
which is you know horribly dismally
comical dis dismally comical exactly and
this is the this is the problem is like
you still need sensors and things like
that within a reactor so you know how to
operate so you know you can see you can
tell what's happening uh and then
obviously modify the controls
accordingly so there are systems inside
a reactor that could fall off in Three
Mile Island obviously you something was
dislodged and affected the flow and then
created effectively a runaway effect
where core melt and then you did have a
right right right right but again like
Three Mile Island no one died in that
kind of operation but it it's bad it's
bad PR certainly yes yes yes well and
that's a problem I mean that that's
pollution in the public in the space of
public opinion and that's not trivial
okay so let's let's um recap here just
for a summary for everybody watching and
listening and then maybe as a closing
see if you have anything to add to it um
so there's there's plenty of uranium
it's very very dense fuel source it
needs to be mined and transformed into
yellow cake and that has to be further
refined into
uranium oh now I forgot the damn
heide heide hexif floride hexafluoride
and then that can be that can be refined
further into the raw material for the
for the raw for the for the power source
for your micro reactors now we talked
about what a micro reactor are is it's
it's very easily transportable um
doesn't require which also something we
didn't talk about which is extremely
important that also means that you don't
have to produce the kinds of
transmission lines to move the power
from place to place which are also hyper
expensive and require a lot of
maintenance that's a huge Advantage okay
so you have these micro reactors they're
under
20 how many watts 20 megawatts under 20
megawatts right and you've built them
reliably enough so that they can be just
transported on site as long as the site
meets a variety of minimal preconditions
and so this is going to be superb for
isolated communities or mining
Enterprises Etc but in principle these
could be networked together to provide a
very resilient reliable and increasingly
lowcost Universal power grid which would
enable us to free up fossil fuels for
use as chemicals chemical uh precursors
let's say that's a wonderful summary
like absolutely and there's no reason
why it come you know some countries are
examining doing exactly that like like I
mentioned Poland was already examining
doing that just to make it grid more
resilient more robust and eventually
cheaper right so that would be the start
you could imagine these things littered
around in some ways as backup for the
current grid right so that to increase
its resilience but as they become
cheaper and more reliable and more
tested even in the public market then
they just start replacing pieces of the
grit yes exactly and like there's no
reason why a developed country can't
like slowly transition in that direction
it doesn't have to be immediate it
doesn't need to be trillion
infrastructure spending shouldn't be
immediate shouldn't be immediate because
there's going to be problems that are
rise that you don't understand till you
try to do it so should start locally and
then well absolutely I mean that's the
problem with like Net Zero by 203 it's
like no how about we don't Stampede off
a cliff like linked arm and- arm you
know maybe that's a bad idea like it
like it certainly is okay well that's
extremely cool all of that and so um now
is there anything you want to tell
people that we didn't get to on this
side of the of the interview I mean the
good thing I mean you covered a lot and
like obviously um you're you pick your
understanding is very quick on the
nuclear industry as a whole um I would
say
I mean holistically speaking I just
think it's best to communicate that this
is a this could be extremely beneficial
for mankind generally and I I could
obviously talk about the company and
everything like that but I think yeah
ultimately the probably even more
important message is that this could
enfranchise billions of people around
the world provide that energy and I
think you put it best when you said that
you know if you give people access to
energy you lift them out of poverty and
then they become more concern with the
environment if you really care about the
environment you should try and lift
people out of poverty right exactly ex
that's a great closing note that's right
if you really care about the environment
as well as people let's say because
maybe we could include them in the
environment then you do everything you
can to lift them out of poverty and then
with no holds part right that's the
number one moral imperative right I mean
even the climate look even the climate
apocalypse mongers use the safety and
well-being of future Generations as the
rationale for the moralizing so there's
no way out of that conundrum it's like
no how about we help the people who are
live right now how about we do thatly
and look I I have children of my own and
I worry about them all the time and I
wonder what kind of world they're going
to inherit and I I would like that world
to be one where they had access to
energy and and they were and poverty was
far more scarce and not and not an
impending risk um so I have a duty I
have a duty to the Future to try and
make it a little better right resilient
wealth resilient wealth that would be
great that's a wonderful phrase like if
we could some sort of resilient wealth
and look wealth is very energy dependent
and so yeah yeah they're the same thing
man for all intents and purposes because
energy is work and work is wealth so
like end of argument fundamentally end
of argument like I think the fundamental
things to progress mankind as long as
it's conf feed itself and it can power
itself then we should have a a
relatively decent future that can
incrementally keep improving hopefully
yes that's the goal that would exactly
be the goal that's right incre
incrementally improving in an
intelligent manner that feeds on itself
yes exactly it's a good definition of
Heaven as far as I'm concerned all right
so that
[Music]